Added common tasks page (#80)
kubewarden/docs: src/tasks.md

# Common Tasks

This page lists a set of tasks that can be performed after you [install Kubewarden](/quick-start.html#install) in your Kubernetes cluster.

Each task can be done separately; however, if you're not familiar with Kubewarden, or Kubernetes policies in general, we recommend that you follow the tasks below in sequential order.

## Test Policies

Kubewarden has two main tools to help you find policies and test them locally:

- [Kubewarden Policy Hub](https://hub.kubewarden.io/)
- [`kwctl`](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl) CLI tool

### Kubewarden Policy Hub

The Kubewarden Policy Hub hosts policies contributed by the community. For example, you can find substitutes to the [deprecated Kubernetes Pod Security Policies](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/), created by the Kubewarden developers. 

> As shown in the picture below, once you find the policy to be tested, you can copy the registry path<sup>1</sup> or download<sup>2</sup> the `WASM` binary containing the policy and additional metadata:

Reviewer: Nitpicking, `Wasm` is written with only the first letter uppercase (see https://webassembly.org/)

```suggestion
As shown in the picture below, once you find the policy to be tested, you can copy the registry path<sup>1</sup> or download<sup>2</sup> the `Wasm` binary containing the policy and additional metadata:
```

![Kubewarden Policy Hub](/images/tasks-policy-hub.png)

> Once you have the policy `WASM` binary or the registry path, you can test it with `kwctl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the policy `Wasm` binary or the registry path, you can test it with `kwctl`.
```

# Common Tasks

This page lists a set of tasks that can be performed after you [install Kubewarden](/quick-start.html#install) in your Kubernetes cluster.

Each task can be done separately; however, if you're not familiar with Kubewarden, or Kubernetes policies in general, we recommend that you follow the tasks below in sequential order.

## Test Policies

Kubewarden has two main tools to help you find policies and test them locally:

- [Kubewarden Policy Hub](https://hub.kubewarden.io/)
- [`kwctl`](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl) CLI tool

### Kubewarden Policy Hub

> The Kubewarden Policy Hub hosts a set of pre-made policies that are created by the Kubewarden developers. These policies are based on the current set of [Kubernetes Pod Security Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden Policy Hub hosts policies contributed by the community. Between those, you can find for example substitutes to the soon-to-be-deprecated  [Kubernetes Pod Security Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/), created by the Kubewarden developers. 
```

Author: Rephrased it based on your suggestion

As shown in the picture below, once you find the policy to be tested, you can copy the registry path<sup>1</sup> or download<sup>2</sup> the `WASM` binary containing the policy and additional metadata:

![Kubewarden Policy Hub](/images/tasks-policy-hub.png)

Once you have the policy `WASM` binary or the registry path, you can test it with `kwctl`.

### `kwctl` CLI tool

`kwctl` is a Command Line Interface (CLI) tool that will allow both the policy authors and the cluster administrators to test policies before they are applied to the Kubernetes cluster.

> The user experience (UX) of this tool is intended to be as easy and intuitive as possible. Think of it as the `docker` CLI tool if you were working with containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user experience (UX) of this tool is intended to be as the `docker` CLI tool.
```

I think it's not needed to explain our intentions, we do intend for everything to be as easy and intuitive as possible.

Author: Rephrased it based on your suggestion

#### Use cases

> Depending on your role, `kwctl` will help you for the following, non-exhaustive, scenarios:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on your role, `kwctl` will help you in the following non-exhaustive scenarios:
```

*As a policy author*

> - *end-to-end testing of your policy*: test your policy against crafted Kubernetes requests, and ensure your policy behaves as you expect. You can even test context-aware policies, that require access to a running cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *End-to-end testing of your policy*: Test your policy against crafted Kubernetes requests and ensure your policy behaves as you expect. You can even test context-aware policies that require access to a running cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: Just suggesting to cap the first word after the colon since these are complete sentences that follow.

> - *Embed metadata in your Wasm module*: the binary is annotated with the permissions it needs to execute

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Embed metadata in your Wasm module*: The binary includes the permissions that it needs to execute.
```

Author: Rephrased based on the suggestion

> - *Publish policies to OCI registries*: the binary is a fully compliant OCI object and can be stored in OCI registries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Publish policies to OCI registries*: The binary is a fully compliant OCI object and can be stored in OCI registries.
```

*As a cluster administrator*

> - *Inspect remote policies*: given a policy in an OCI registry, or in an HTTP server, show all static information about the policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Inspect remote policies*: Given a policy in an OCI registry or in an HTTP server, show all static information about the policy.
```

> - *Dry-run of a policy in your cluster*: test the policy against crafted Kubernetes requests, and ensure the policy behaves as you expect given the input data you provide. You can even test context-aware policies, that require access to a running cluster, also in a dry-run mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Dry-run of a policy in your cluster*: Test the policy against crafted Kubernetes requests and ensure the policy behaves as you expect given the input data you provide. You can even test context-aware policies that require access to a running cluster, also in a dry-run mode.
```

> - *Generate initial `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` scaffolding for your policy*: generates a `YAML` file with all the required settings, which can be applied to your Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Generate initial `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` scaffolding for your policy*: Generate a `YAML` file with all the required settings, which can be applied to your Kubernetes cluster using `kubectl`.
```

#### Installation

> `kwctl` binaries, for the stable releases, are directly available from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`kwctl` binaries for the stable releases are directly available from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases).
```

> **NOTE**: If you want to build `kwctl` from the development branch, you need to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install). And for building `kwctl`, please refer to the `Build kwctl from source` section in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl).

#### Usage

As stated above, `kwctl` will allow you to perform an end-to-end testing of the policies.

> You can list all the `kwctl` options and subcommandes by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can list all the `kwctl` options and subcommands by running the following command:
```

```shell
$ kwctl --help
kwctl 0.2.4
Flavio Castelli <fcastelli@suse.com>:Rafael Fernández López <rfernandezlopez@suse.com>
Tool to manage Kubewarden policies

USAGE:
    kwctl [FLAGS] <SUBCOMMAND>

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information
    -v               Increase verbosity

SUBCOMMANDS:

>     annotate       Add Kubewarden metadata to a WebAssembly module

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    annotate       Adds Kubewarden metadata to a WebAssembly module
```

>     completions    Generate shell completions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    completions    Generates shell completions
```

    help           Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

>     inspect        Inspect Kubewarden policy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    inspect        Inspects Kubewarden policy
```

>     manifest       Scaffold a Kubernetes resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    manifest       Scaffolds a Kubernetes resource
```

    policies       Lists all downloaded policies
    pull           Pulls a Kubewarden policy from a given URI
    push           Pushes a Kubewarden policy to an OCI registry
    rm             Removes a Kubewarden policy from the store
    run            Runs a Kubewarden policy from a given URI

>     verify         Verify a Kubewarden policy from a given URI using Sigstore

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    verify         Verifies a Kubewarden policy from a given URI using Sigstore
```

Reviewer 3: Just making the verb tenses match here in this list.

```

> Here are few examples of the commands you should run, depending on the task you want to perform:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are a few examples of the commands you should run, depending on the task you want to perform:
```

> - *List the policies*: lists all the policies stored in the local `kwctl` registry

Reviewer 3: Just a note: I think it's fine to keep words lowercase after colons in cases like this, wherein it begins an incomplete phrase. But you could cap these also for consistency- up to you!

  ```

- *Understand how the policy works*: inspect the policy metadata

  - Command: `kwctl inspect <policy URI>`
  - Example:

  ```shell
    $ kwctl inspect registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.9
    Details
    title:              pod-privileged
    description:        Limit the ability to create privileged containers
    author:             Flavio Castelli
    url:                https://github.com/kubewarden/pod-privileged-policy
    source:             https://github.com/kubewarden/pod-privileged-policy
    license:            Apache-2.0
    mutating:           false
    context aware:      false
    execution mode:     kubewarden-wapc
    protocol version:   1
    
    Annotations
    io.kubewarden.kwctl 0.1.9
    
    Rules
    ────────────────────
    ---
    - apiGroups:
        - ""
      apiVersions:
        - v1
      resources:
        - pods
      operations:
        - CREATE
    ────────────────────
    
    Usage
    This policy doesn't have a configuration. Once enforced, it will reject
    the creation of Pods that have at least a privileged container defined.
  ```

> - *Evaluate the policy*: assess the policy and, if available, find the right configuration values to match your requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- *Evaluate the policy*: Assess the policy and, if available, find the right configuration values to match your requirements.
```

  > NOTE: Familiarity with [Kubernetes REST APIs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/) is a prerequisite.

  - Command: `kwctl run -r <"Kubernetes Admission request" file path> -s <"JSON document" file path> <policy URI>`

>     - Command breakdown:

Reviewer 2: I'm wary of listing command options in an specific manner, I always find they drift out of sync.

I would prefer to focus on the examples, and then have 1 page on the documentation that lists the kwctl commands in a `man` style. This normally can be automated, in kwctl's case it would be https://rust-cli.github.io/book/in-depth/docs.html.

Reviewer 2: I suggest removing the command breakdown for now. In the future, we could substitutethe output of `kwctl --help` for a link to the docs page that contains the "manpage"-style  docs of kwctl.

Author: Removed the command breakdown. And yes, as discussed, I suggest we have a `kwctl` oriented page.

      | -        | `-s`           | Path to a file containing the policy's settings              | It's also possible to use `--settings-json` followed by the settings in JSON format |
      | ✅        | `<policy URI>` | URI pointing to the policy to be used                        | The supported schemes are: registry://, https://, file://    |

  - Scenario 1:

    - Request to be evaluated: Create a pod with no 'privileged' container

    - Example:

      ```shell
      $ kwctl run registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.9 -r unprivileged-pod-request.json
      {"uid":"C6E115F4-A789-49F8-B0C9-7F84C5961FDE","allowed":true,"status":{"message":""}}
      ```
  
      - Equivalent command with the policy binary downloaded:
  
         ```shell
        `$ kwctl run file://$PWD/pod-privileged-policy.wasm -r unprivileged-pod-request.json
        {"uid":"C6E115F4-A789-49F8-B0C9-7F84C5961FDE","allowed":true,"status":{"message":""}}
        ```
  

>     - Result: The policy allowes the request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Result: The policy allows the request
```

  
  - Scenario 2:
  
    - Request to be evaluated: Create a pod with at least one 'privileged' container
  
    - Command: 
  
      ```
      kwctl run registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.9 -r privileged-pod-request.json
      ```
  
      - Equivalent command with the policy binary downloaded: `kwctl run file://$PWD/pod-privileged-policy.wasm -r privileged-pod-request.json`
  
    - Output:
  
      ```json
      {"uid":"8EE6AF8C-C8C8-45B0-9A86-CB52A70EC50D","allowed":false,"status":{"message":"User 'kubernetes-admin' cannot schedule privileged containers"}}
      ```
  
    - Result: The policy denies the request
  

>     > **INFO**: if you want to see a more complex example, you can read this Kubewarden blog post: [Introducing `kwctl` to Kubernetes Administrators](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2021/06/kwctl-intro-for-kubernetes-administrators/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    > **NOTE**: If you want to see a more complex example, you can read the Kubewarden blog post [Introducing `kwctl` to Kubernetes Administrators](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2021/06/kwctl-intro-for-kubernetes-administrators/).
```

Reviewer 3: It might be a good idea not to have two colons in the same sentence, so just changed the wording a bit to avoid it.

  
## Enforce Policies

As described in the [Quick Start](/quick-start.html#example-enforce-your-first-policy), you can enforce a policy by defining a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and then deploy it to your cluster using `kubectl`.

`kwctl` will help to generate a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` from the policy you want to enforce. 

> You can follow the steps described in the [Quick Start](/quick-start.md#example-enforce-your-first-policy) after you generated the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and applied it to your Kubernetes cluster, as follow:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you have generated the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and applied it to your Kubernetes cluster, you can follow the steps described in the [Quick Start](/quick-start.md#example-enforce-your-first-policy) below:
```

  - Generate the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` from the policy `manifest` and save it to a file
  
    - Command: `kwctl manifest -t ClusterAdmissionPolicy <policy URI> > <"policy name".yaml>`
    - Example:
    
    ```shell
    $ kwctl manifest -t ClusterAdmissionPolicy registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.9
    ---
    apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
    kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
    metadata:
      name: privileged-pods
    spec:
      module: "registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.9"
      settings: {}
      rules:
        - apiGroups:
            - ""
          apiVersions:
            - v1
          resources:
            - pods
          operations:
            - CREATE
      mutating: false
    ```
  

>     > TIP: by default, the `name` value is set to `generated-policy`. You might want to edit it before you deploy the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    > TIP: By default, the `name` value is set to `generated-policy`. You might want to edit it before you deploy the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy`. 
```

    >
    > NOTE: To avoid confusion, the value above has been set to `privileged-pods`.
  
  - Deploy the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` to your Kubernetes cluster

    - Command: `kubectl apply -f <"policy name".yaml>`
    - Example:
    
    ```shell
    $ kubectl apply -f pod-privileged-policy.yaml
    clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/privileged-pods created
    ```

> Once the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` deployed, the requests sent to your Kubernetes cluster will be evaluated by the policy, if they're within the policy scope.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` has deployed, the requests sent to your Kubernetes cluster will be evaluated by the policy if they're within the policy scope.
```

Author: Rephrased based on suggestion

## Next steps

### Write Policies

> The section [Writing Policies](/writing-policies/) explains how to write policies in different languages and how to export them into Webassembly that can be interpreted by Kubewarden.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Writing Policies](/writing-policies/) section explains how to write policies in different languages and how to export them into Webassembly so that they can be interpreted by Kubewarden.
```

### Distribute Policies

> The section [Distributing Policies](/distributing-policies/) explains how to publish policies to [OCI registries](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/main/spec.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Distributing Policies](/distributing-policies/) section explains how to publish policies to [OCI registries](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/main/spec.md).
```
